REFLECTION

1.  Mariette Award's paper distinguishes between different "types" of AI:
    Descriptive AI, Predictive AI, Generative AI, Optimization AI and 
    Prescriptive AI. Descriptive AI focuses on extracting patterns from large 
    datasets in order to get insights. Predictive AI uses historical data to 
    predict outcomes and behaviors. Generative AI produces new/original content, 
    which is useful for studying social behaviors without requiring real people.
    Optimization AI focuses on finding the best solution among many variables and 
    Prescriptive AI suggests actions by comparing scientific data with real-world 
    constraints. All these types matter for scientific research because each scientific 
    objective requires a different paradigm to operate in, which requires the distinction 
    between those three types of AI. Different stages of the scientific method require 
    different logic; and understanding when to use each type of AI helps researchers to 
    know when human intervention is needed, and when it's not.     

2.  Yes, Award implies a shift where AI systems act not only as tools, but as "epistemic agents". 
    This reorientation involves AI advancing from enhancing human inquiries by assisting them, 
    to restructuring reseach and generating new knowledge. This difference is supported by the 
    example of autonomous laboratory systems which uses reinforcement learning to guide the 
    creation of nanoparticules, and makes independent decisions requiring very minimal human 
    intervention. Award suggests that while many of these tools are in fact extended from existing
    methods, there is a real shift in how science is conducted, where AI is now actively contributing 
    to scientific reasoning and advancement, even sometimes overwriting human deductions. 


3.  Award identifies many risks associated with using AI for science. Those risks relate to 
    interpretability as models produce results without revealing how they were derived, which 
    enhances the "Black Box" ideology in which scientists find it hard to explain or justify the 
    outputs. Bias is also a prevalent issue as tools can internalize societal bias, including race 
    stereotypes, gender stereotypes and much more. In addition, certain tools can produce and spread 
    false information which raises the issue of trust and reproducibility. Another risk is that the 
    insight that emerges from data patterns might lack the theoretical premises that are required for 
    scientific explanation.


4.  According to Award's argument, AI is likely to both accelerate scientific discovery and reshape the 
    scientific method itself. AI is accelerating discovery by processing large datasets and optimizing 
    experiments, while simultaneously reshaping the scientific method and utilizing "epistemic agents".
    This thus changes how  evidence is collected and how explanations are drawn. Personally, I agree with 
    this argument and do believe that AI is likely to reshape the scientific method as it advances sciences 
    toward a new approach where AI is leading, identifying the hypothesis, testing, producing etc. 
    Although AI is taking much more space and agency in the scientific realm, I still think scientists remain 
    essential for the validation and monitoring of AI use (inputs, outputs, etc).    
